# A copula-based simulation model for big tech and defensive portfolios risk management
This portfolio risk management is a group project conducted in Module ACF313 (Risk Management for Business) during Year 4 in Xi'an Jiaotong-Liverpool University. Group memebers includes Xiaowen Man, Pinyi Wu which is me - [Wallace2cm](https://github.com/Wallace2cm), Shiqi Dong and Yifan Yang. [Halis Sak](https://www.xjtlu.edu.cn/zh/departments/academic-departments/international-business-school-suzhou/staff/halis-sak) provided advice and knowledge as an instructor during the whole project.

## Contribution
Shiqi Dong and I were responbile for the most R programming. Xiaowen Man is in charge of Monte Carlo smiulation and Backtesting for VaR. Yiyan Ynag conducted the literature review. The overall contribution could be 30%, 30%, 30% and 10% for Xiaowen Man, Pinyi Wu, Shiqi Dong and Yifan Yang.

## Introduction
To conduct portfolio risk management, it is important to identify various categories of financial risks which include but not limited to market risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and operational risk (Maverick, 2018). Market risk, known as systematic risk, is the likelihood that the potential losses the investors would endure due to changes in the financial market factors (Chen, 2018a). Examples of market risk could be the recession of economy which would result in the poor performance of the overall market and influence all asset classes. Thus, market risk is undiversifiable and unpredictable (Nickolas, 2018). In this paper, the market risk will be discussed and explored by creating two portfolios incorporating four stocks of big tech companies and four stocks belonging to defensive industries. 

In Oct. 2018, the global stock indices suffered their worst monthly performance since the last 9 years and global equity markets were much more volatile than before (J.P. Morgan, 2018). However, under the circumstance of the President Trump’s tax reforms, multiple US tech companies have gained advantages to reduce the cost and repatriated billions in overseas (Waters and Johnson, 2018). Apple Inc. significantly benefited from the policy with respect to the earning growth and shareholder capital returns. As Tae indicated in 2018, Apple conducted stock buybacks to return near $25 billion to shareholders per quarter. Additionally, several big tech companies in the United States including Apple, Alphabet, Cisco, Microsoft and Oracle spent over $115 billion buying back the stocks in the first three quarters in 2018 and increased their capital investment by 42 percent compared with the same period in previous year (Kim, 2018). Stock buyback is normally a promising news as repurchasing the outstanding shares could reduce the cost of capital and it may imply a pleasant performance of the issuing companies (White, 2018). Moreover, large amount of stock buyback will increase the earnings per share and a high value of it will indicate potential investing values (Vartan, 1984).

As a consequence, it is reasonable to create a portfolio with these big tech companies as it has strong support by Anastasia Amoroso, the Head of GIO Investment Strategy at J.P.Morgan Private Bank, who indicated that software and IT services providers will embrace a positive future with significant investment in data privacy (Amoroso, 2018). 

In this report. Apple Inc. (AAPL), Alphabet (GOOGL), Microsoft (MSFT) and Cisco (CSCO) will be selected to form big tech portfolio as they are all traded on NASDAQ stock market and the financial data is provided by Yahoo Finance. As stated above, global economy is undergoing a poor performance as it could be reflected by performance of S&P 500 index which plunged 6.7 percent from Oct. 3rd to Oct.11th in 2018 (Imbert, 2018a). As a consequence, to be more focused on defense, the portfolio strategy will differ from the previous one. As the Jim Paulsen, the Chief investment strategist of the Leuthold Group, indicated that although the recession stage has not arrived, the bull market of U.S. large-capitalization stocks is in its middle period (Imbert, 2018a). Thus, defensive equity sectors such as utilities, consumer staples and real estate should be considered to create a defensive portfolio. In this paper, Physicians Realty Trust (DOC) will be selected as it is in recession-proof healthcare industry and it will benefit from a growing demographic (Frankel, 2018). With regard to utilities stocks, they gained at least 2% in four continuous weeks and previous record was three successive weeks in 2004 (Intelligent
Income,2018). This is a positive signal and consequently, NextEra Energy (NEE) and American Electric Power (AEP) will be chose. Besides, the stock of Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) will be considered as consumer staple stock. These four stocks which diversify across sectors will contribute to a defensive portfolio.

This report aims to evaluate the above two portfolios (big tech and defensive) by multiple methods. Firstly, based on the alpha and beta values, we categorize eight stocks to form two portfolios, then we use the log returns of stocks to fit the normal and t distribution to determine the optimal marginal distribution. Next, normal and t copula are employed to model the dependence structure of the stocks in the same portfolio. According to loglikelihood and AIC values, t distribution and t copula is considered as the more appropriate candidates in the above two stages respectively. Then we compute VaR by using Monte Carlo simulation and compare the values with the actual daily profit and loss to evaluate the calculated VaR, and simply discuss the potential reasons for the violations. Finally, we compare the two portfolios and give a conclusion.

##### Please refer to [A copula-based simulation model for big tech and defensive portfolios risk management](https://github.com/Wallace2cm/Portfolio-Risk-Management/blob/master/A%20copula-based%20simulation%20model%20for%20big%20tech%20and%20defensive%20portfolios%20risk%20management%20.pdf) for more detailed simulation and methods explaination.
